<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="templates">

<title>Working With Templates</title>

<conbody>
<p>In Author-it, templates ensure consistency and reduce the amount of setup work required from authors.</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Designer-Created:</b> Templates are created and maintained by Designers. They define all the publishing rules an object should follow.</li>
<li><b>Author-Friendly:</b> By assigning a template to an object, authors can focus solely on writing content rather than configuring Print/Help/Web properties manually.</li>
<li><b>Standardization:</b> Templates enforce the organization’s standards by controlling layout, styles, breaks, numbering, and other publishing elements.</li>
</ul>

<section>
<title>How Inheritance Works</title>
<p>Every time an object is created, such as a Topic, and is further based on a template, the object automatically inherits all settings defined in that particular template.</p>

<p><b>Inherited (Read-Only) Properties</b></p>
<ul>
<li>These properties are locked because the template sets them.</li>
<li>They appear in <b>bright blue</b> inside the properties panel.</li>
<li>Example inherited settings:
<ul>
<li>Style set to <b>Auto</b></li>
<li>Insert a <b>Super Heading</b></li>
<li>Use a specific <b>Media Object</b></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p>Authors cannot edit these unless the template is changed.</p>

<p><b>Modifiable Properties</b></p>
<ul>
<li>If Designers want authors to supply content (e.g., entering a heading or selecting an option), they deliberately <b>leave that field blank</b> in the template.</li>
<li>These fields appear editable at the object level.</li>
</ul>
</section>

<section>
<title>Power of Global Updates</title>
<p>Templates act as a global control layer for the entire library.</p>

<ul>
<li>If a Designer updates the template, for example, changing a Section Break to a Page Break - that change is instantly inherited by every object based on that template.</li>
<li>No manual cleanup is required.</li>
<li>This ensures long-term maintainability, consistent formatting, and efficient rollout of publishing standards across all authors and documents.</li>
</ul>

</section>
</conbody>
</concept>